---
title: "Poker Camp Section 1.1 Intro to Poker -- Why Poker?"
date: 2024-04-23
sidebar:
  nav: "nav"
toc: true
toc_label: "TOC"
toc_sticky: true
---

# Intro to Poker -- Why Poker? 
Check most recent gtowizard posts

uncertainty 
table selection 

flexibility more than looking ahead (e.g. chess look side not just ahead), being present, making right move for right now, look for move they didn't see

https://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/12/nyregion/12poker.html 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bDt90EyZnWA 

attention to detail

​​https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commonwealth_v._Dent 

https://www.poker.org/chris-moneymaker-and-the-truth-behind-the-poker-boom/ 

https://www.slowboring.com/p/schools-should-try-to-teach-kids 

https://pokerpower.com/  

https://www.economist.com/the-economist-reads/2023/04/16/what-to-read-to-understand-poker-the-finest-game-ever-invented  

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/06/28/crosswords/children-chess-lessons-zoom.html 


https://www.poker.org/jennifer-shahade-on-poker-chess-sexism-and-joining-poker-power/ 
 
  ​https://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/2023/05/02/jungleman-poker-dan-cates-autisic/

  What about the smart thinking section? 

  Etiquette
Cate Hall: Two friends and I maniacally studied reads together, and we all had out-of-distribution results. But when we’d tell other pros what we were doing, the response from most was “nuh-uh, that’s not a thing.” They weren’t willing to consider the possibility that reads were valuable, maybe because they didn’t want to feel obligated to study them.

Good at changing mind, understanding others and the world 


## Taking Risks
Afraid of failure, not enough risk tolerance with EV
they’re extremely risk-averse and they’re poor at capital allocation. That is, they lack the confidence to make the calls on when and how much to invest when they don’t have all the information in front of them. 
Good value doesn’t hang around long! 
His understanding of math and AI -- relating to which play to run in football, for example -- reminded me that vast majority of (successful) people don't grok math, probability, game theory, risk or any of that. "Everything is an if / then statement" as tech people say. Even some gamblers and traders think this way and manage to get it to work, but most have an intuitive understanding of distributions. But most people don't. This will never change, and we need to find ways to explain things in tech and markets in ways that make sense to those without this understanding. Especially with AI. The solution won't be to make everyone a trader, financial literacy, or making them take a Khan Academy course on probability. We need a better vocabulary for these concepts -- for those whose brains aren't wired to grok stochasticity
Sticking to budget
Money management
Assess and manage risk
Decision making similar to irl

## Psychology 
Detecting deception
Dealing with disappointment
People
Mental game
Emotional, control emotions
Concentrate for hours
Patience
Discipline
Not good for ego wars
If I do this, they will think this, etc. levels (game theory)
Same skills business contract, buying home, problem solving (patience for all steps to solve problem rather than knee-jerk)
Consider all situation to problem solve rather than quick

## Math and Probability
Sunk cost fallacy
Smart thinking
Probabilistic thinking

## Rationality
Poker actually fairly simple, so why so difficult? So many biases and irrationalities → more rational is better
Tilt when someone gets frustrated and plays worse (can be due to anger, bad luck (esp by bad play), etc.), best to stop playing if on tilt. Probably originated from tilting a pinball machine. Emotion takes over and become kind of irrational and impulsive, ability to control and think properly not good. Some don’t even want to play with bad players! Might be actuall rational if those players make them so irrational. 
Suffer cause of some other person making bad decision, instinct is revenge/anger
Less tilt = less losing
Life tilt
If someone does not tilt, sign that they are good and have emotional control

“Online poker is the most brutal rationality test I know of” https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/xjMDAtz5T3Ssz9Y7X/verifying-rationality-via-rationalpoker-com?commentId=g7AxnEPftgsAudt44 

Poker gives us an objective way to test x-rationality. The difference between winning and losing in poker once you know a small amount of domain-specific knowledge is due to differing levels of rationality. Our site will be presenting the case that a strong rationalist who can act on their knowledge of cognitive biases (a defining feature of x-rationality but not traditional rationality) should have a distinct advantage. We'll be offering the connecting material between the sequences and online poker to teach you how to apply knowledge of cognitive biases to poker in a way that verifies your current level of rationality and naturally teaches you to improve your rationality over time.
https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/xjMDAtz5T3Ssz9Y7X/verifying-rationality-via-rationalpoker-com 
poker is an excellent rationality test. The main difficulty of playing the game well, once one understands the basic strategy, is in how amazingly well it evokes and then punishes our irrational natures. Difficulties updating (believing the improbable when new information comes in), loss aversion, takeover by the limbic system (anger / jealousy / revenge / etc),
uncertainty about whether opponent is making a mistake gives you even more chances to lie to yourself
Blackjack rationality must use chart! 

In poker, much attention is given to the sexy art of reading your opponent, but the true veteran knows that far more important is the art of reading and controlling yourself.  It is very rare that a situation comes up where a "tell" matters, and each of my opponents is only in an occasional hand.  I and my irrationalities, however, are in every decision in every hand.  This is why self-knowledge and self-discipline are first-order concerns in poker, while opponent reading is second or perhaps even third.
Learning the martial art of rationality is something that all of us can do now to improve the quality of our decisions and thus positively influence every part of our lives.  By making us more effective as individuals (hell, just keeping us from stupidly getting ourselves killed), it will help us work on all of our goals - like getting society to accept ambitious new social institutions.
Perhaps I am prejudiced by poker (and games in general), but I see life as a constant series of decisions. The quality of those decisions, combined with luck, gives an outcome. Life is a game of chance and skill, in other words.

Poker can be key to conquering biases, important to practice not just read about them. Why book can be more valuable than a short blog, cause it ingrains the knowledge. Not enough experience to reduce bias just by reading and going about life. Poker immediate feedback, you care, keep score, punished by irrationality, more rational means more success. 
The normal way this happens to people in their everyday lives (usually by accident) is when something serious impacts their health, status, or net-worth. Basically anything that triggers survival instincts can prompt humans into questioning what they’re doing and jolt them into considering a revision to their habits.

https://irep.ntu.ac.uk/id/eprint/5441/1/197359_2073%20Griffiths%20Publisher.pdf 
Critical evaluative skills: The ability to appraise information and situations realistically, and to anticipate problems and difficulties, is vital in poker. To critically evaluate your playing decisions (“did I play that right?”) and those of others is common. These are also essential skills in the workplace— particularly in management.
Numerical skills: The ability to handle and interpret numerical and statistical information is an important skill in many areas of employability. In poker, there are many levels of numerical skill, such as the micromanagement of funds— every penny is important—or the cards themselves. Not many jobs require mathematical wiz-kids but many decision-making judgements can be based on the balance of probability or the ability to interpret data summaries.
Pragmatism skills: The ability to make the best of a nonideal situation and to work within preset constraints is a valuable skill in poker. For example, players need to accept what they cannot change (their cards) and play with what they have. Pragmatism is an undervalued skill within the workplace— most probably because it is more of an inherent skill than something that is learned. Success in almost any job will require good use of pragmatism.
Interpersonal skills: Knowledge of the mechanisms of social communication and the potential sources of interpersonal conflict can be the difference between a good and a great poker player. Being able to identify an opponent’s “tell” can pay huge (financial) dividends. Having good interpersonal awareness is not the same as being socially skilled (although it contributes). Interpersonal skills contribute to emotional intelligence, i.e., how to respond to different people in different situations. Interpersonal awareness skills in the workplace can make a difference in understanding and dealing with interpersonal problems. They may also help in telling whether colleagues are lying or trying to be economical with the truth.
Problem-solving skills: The ability to identify different strategies and approaches is of great benefit when playing poker. Problem-solving skills in the workplace are extremely important to anyone wanting to be successful in their career, especially when they are tied in with pragmatism skills.
Goal orientation skills: The ability to set goals and to formulate strategies to achieve those goals can be of benefit while playing poker. Being hungry and insatiable in the desire to achieve (i.e., winning) is a common characteristic of good poker players. Having goals gives people a purpose, which is very valuable in the workplace. It allows people to measure their success in some way, just as the poker player does when winning or losing.
Learning skills: The ability to continuously learn and not rest on your laurels is a valuable skill in poker (as it is obviously in almost all areas of life). In poker, being humble enough to learn from those more experienced and to take others’ expertise into future games is akin to other learning experiences in other environments—including the workplace. In poker, such learning can bring about objectivity. For instance, poker players should not act in haste but ponder and deliberate responses objectively. In essence, this is continuing professional development. It doesn’t matter what walk of life you find yourself in—learning from others is paramount.
Higher-order analytic and strategic skills: The ability to extract general principles from immediate or concrete situations and to formulate appropriate strategies can be very important while playing poker. For example, good poker players know not to let the cards get them frustrated or not to fight battles they can’t win. There are clear parallels in the workplace, including office politics.
Flexibility skills: The ability to adapt to any situation or to be opportunistic when a situation presents itself underlies skills in flexibility. In poker, adapting to your environment (e.g., who are you playing against, how big is your stack) comes with playing experience. The ability to look from several points of view is not something that can necessarily be taught but is certainly a valuable skill to an employer.
Self-awareness skills: The ability to play to strengths and acknowledge weaknesses is a common trait in many walks of life. In poker, such skills can be very important. For example, skilful poker players remember that bad luck doesn’t always last and good luck definitely doesn’t last. Poker players also know that there is no room for apathy or complacency (in winning or losing streaks). In the workplace, self-awareness skills will help employees succeed in areas of strength and delegate in areas of weakness.
Self-control skills: The ability to act with a cool head under pressure and to show the nerve and the mettle to cope under adversity is critical in good poker playing. Quite clearly, in the workplace, many team leaders and managers need such skills in order to get the most out of themselves and their teams. Such skills are also important in terms of stress management.
“First, let’s recall the main reason why poker is such good rationality training. It’s the breakneck speed and frequency with which poker demands important decisions. It’s an amplified microcosm for real life. It’s a complete pressure cooker for your mind. Whatever bias is causing you to fail in poker, it’s the same bias causing you to fail in real life too. In real life though, things move much slower. You may only encounter this failure mode of yours rarely and under high-pressure, important situations — which is unfortunate because this is precisely the time when you can least afford to have your mind fail you. Even worse, it happens so infrequently that this small amount of “real world” feedback will rarely give you a chance to learn from your mistakes. Wouldn’t you like to be prepared for important life situations by training to avoid biases under pressure in a less important arena beforehand? That’s what poker is for. It gives you a place to find your failure mode and learn to overcome it by simply striving to become a winning player in poker.”
https://rationalpoker.com/2011/03/30/hindsight-bias/ 
Rationality means coming to correct beliefs, helps in all areas of life, i.e. being right more
Biases are the enemy and not obvious when they come up
Even sometimes bad judgment when playing vs. if you were watching same thing
Reasoning, beliefs, life decisions


## Skill Game
### Compared to Chess
Incomplete information
Chess is like classical mechanics. Poker is like quantum mechanics. In chess there is only one right move. In poker there is no single right move. There is a probability distribution of right moves,

https://www.slowboring.com/p/schools-should-try-to-teach-kids  

https://momentofdeep.substack.com/p/teach-your-kids-poker-not-chess?s=

https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2022/09/carlsen-niemann-chess-cheating-poker/671472/ 

https://chessintheschools.org/about-us/#leadership 

Chesskid https://www.chesskid.com/ 

storytime chess

## History of Poker

## Wait, isn't Poker Gambling?
Antidote to addiction because if they understand decisions/probabilities, actually not gambling

Test2! 

Poker Power has some highfalutin claims about what poker can teach women, including how to be more fearless, confident, influential, perceptive, cool-headed, and resilient, but little in the way of scholarship to back up those claims. Studies suggest that good poker players have some of those qualities—especially cool-headedness—and that skill at poker can be learned. 

In Just’s mind, poker mirrors the options market, where you have imperfect amounts of information, but you invest on probable outcomes, and then change your strategy as more information comes in. Options trading, she admits, isn’t an automatic ticket to power, but it’s a useful skill, and one that she has worked hard to introduce to more women. “I tell women, ‘You don’t have to be a trader the rest of your life. But if you can understand options, you can sit at any table in any industry, in any position, and understand what’s going on with the money. And that’s where all the decisions are.”


@jamestanton  said it perfectly:"Math is the beautiful, rich, joyful, playful, surprising, frustrating, humbling, and creative art that speaks to something transcendental.
Mathematics is not just about memorizing steps.It’s about understanding the underlying principles and applying them to solve real-world problems.


